Cool guys.
So right now, let's go inside some shortcuts and some tips and tricks that we should use.
But it's not mandatory to use.
But yeah, we should use, uh, to save time during the time of contest and other stuff.
But, uh, what I want you to understand is that it's not necessary for you to do it.
It's not mandatory for you to follow this particular tutorial.
But yes, if you do it, it might give you some insights of how to like save time and get more in
CP.
Right, because in competitive programming, we want to work more on the logical part.
We want to work more on the logic thinking, logic building part, right instead of code part, right.
So we want to work less on code.
Let's say there's a problem.
I want to work 20 minutes on the logical part.
I want to think for 20 minutes, but I just want to code it out in 5 minutes.
If I've got the logic in my mind, I want to code it out in just 5 minutes.
Not more than that.
So to code it out in 5 minutes and to avoid some errors, I'll be using some small tips and tricks so
you can use them wisely.
It's like a bonus video for you.
You use it or you do not use it.
It depends on you, right?
The first thing is guys that there this particular int and whenever I take int.
I take a variable call int and what is its limit?
Its limit is like two to the power 31, right.
We all know what are the ranges of int and long long int,  character, strings right?.
But guys, what happens is I want to.
I do not want my int to be of length, 10 to the power 9 only, and I want it to extend to 10 to the
power 18.
So what I can do is I can simply.
Let's define it here.
Let's define int as.
Okay, let me give a space.
Let's define.
ll as long long.
Instead of writing long long int.
What is the long long int?
Because these are like basic parts.
And I'm not going deep into this long long.
Int has a range of 2 to the power 63.
That is approximately 10 to the power 18.
So that's the maximum a integer can hold in.
That's a maximum that a long long integer can hold in C++.
Right.
So you won't be like printing answers more than these many digits ever.
So if you want to use long long int, you can define ll as long long int and simply now define ll n.
Right.
And let's  cout n.
As you can see, it will give me a garbage value initially.
So let's define it till 1e18.
What is, 1e18, it is 10 to the  power 18?, what will be 2e18
2* 10 to the power 18
Right.
Let's print this so what I'm getting.
I'm getting I'm getting an integer of length.
18 So it is 10 to the power 18 but if I don't define this as, let's say I, I just write int over here.
so this won't work why because it will give me an error value.
It will give me a wrong value, a garbage value.
Adding value by because the length of n is approximately ten to the power nine, that is 2 to the power
31.
It won't be storing numbers more than that that is 1e18.
So the maximum length of an integer in this is INT MAX.
Right.
You can't store integers more than this.
That is 2147483647 can't store more a value more than this in the integer variable.
You need a long long integer variable.
This is a INT_MAX.
It's in-built constant value.
In C++ you can use it directly.
It is 2 to the power 13 -1  Right.
So as we can see, seven for a reason.
Right.
And they like other ways also, let's say.
Okay.
So we'll do this later.
And I said, guys, let's define it back now.
What happens is when we define ll as long long int generally a habit of writing integer
We get a bad habit of writing ll instead, right?
But what I want to do is I want to write int only and use long long int for that I can do is I can simply
define int here.
i.e define int as long long int
Now, wherever I write, int will get the long, long int.
So my habit of writing int doesn't go away.
So that whenever I face an interview in which I'm trying to code something out.
At that particular time.
I don't use ll because it's not a good habit, not a good practice to use ll in interviews
and other stuff.
So I want my.
Habit of writing int to be there.
But as we can see, we got an error.
But let's check this error.
Okay.
So we have int written over here, that is line number seven in line number seven.
If I have int written here, that means it's a long long int
So we know that whenever a compiler searches, whenever compiler starts execution, it starts from the
main function, right?
So if it start from the int main function, right.
So if this function is returning a long long int, as we know that, int has become long long int
and right.
If I, if I like trying something like try to return something over here, it will return a long, long
int.
But that's not what the compiler wants, right?.
What's that error, main must return int
cool.
So right now,  main, is returning a long long int
Because it is defined as long long int.
So what we'll do is I cast it back to 32 bit int right so a long long int is a 64
bit int, right,  64 bit means that means it has 64 bits to store the integers.
That's why the range of 2 to the power 64 right now.
What I'll do is I'll convert it back to the 32 bit int .
So what I'll do is you to int32_t  again, this is again a variable in C++, it's also in C and
what does this do?
It.
It means int32_t means.
int only, a normal int.
Right.
So it means.
An integer, nothing else.
I'm just converting the long long int back to this particular part so that we return our 32 bit integer
only from the int main, so let's build it again.
Guys.
Right.
So now we can easily see that I have a integer defined over here because a int means a long, long
int.
And that integer  is storing a range of 10 to the power 18.
And I said, guys, it's a hack it's not a good practice to use to do this in the what's the best
practice to do it if you if you want numbers of more than ten to the power nine, if you want to use more
than more numbers than integer can hold, then simply use long, long.
And that's a good practice.
But it's a normal hack just to save your time and so that you don't waste your time in this small stuff.
So I hope you understood this part that by why I'm using integer over here why I'm using int over here, but it is
storing our length very really big.
cool, this is the first part, guys.
Now, the second part is I don't want to.
Okay.
So I think that rest part is also not mandatory.
Let's say I'm defining some terms here I define F is first what happens is.
Whenever I'm.
Using a pair in a vector a pair of array, so a pair has a first and second.
So instead of writing first FIRST or second as SECOND  again and again, I simply use F or S.
So let's say s SECOND.
And okay, so generally we use vectors and in vectors we use push_back right what I'll say is.
I'll also look.
Let's define pb as pushback.
These are some small hacks that you can use, but it's not mandatory just for those who really want to
use this.
And also, you guys, you can define it on your own purposes, like whatever.
If there's a variable that you use very often and you want it to be used to be defining to some other
thing, you can use it directly.
So people also use type defines instead of defines which define a particular type.
Like you can define a vector int as VI, we will be using type define right.
And.
Go on.
Right.
So if you see some other codes, you will see a lot of defines already there.
So what people do is okay I'll show you an example in the next video of different defines that people use.
But here are a few of them that you can use.
Cool!
So I'll be using only these four I think I won't be using any else
So let's make a snippet out of this.
So let's copy it.
Tools Developer snippet.
And I'll make this as cp snippet not cpsimple snippet.
CP Right.
And let me save this cp dot(.)
Sublime snippet cp.sublimesnippet cool, and now what I'll say cp and what is my cp
simple.
This is my cp simple and this is cp
Okay.
So that's it, guys.
See you In the next part.